---
layout: pa
num: pa03
ready: true
desc: "Binary search tree implementation of a card game"
assigned: 2018-03-05 09:00:00.00-8
due: 2018-03-16 23:59:00.00-8
---

<div markdown="1">

# Introduction

* Create a github repo following the correct naming convention.
* If you have a partner, add you partner as a collaborator to the repo. Partner should accept the invitations to complete this process
* Join a team on submit.cs
* Get the starter code for this lab by doing a git pull in your starter-code repo and copying the files from ~/cs24/cs24-w18-starter-code/pa03/

# Goal of this assignment

* Practice using binary search trees
* Continue learning to organize a project's code structure on your own (not just filling in a template)
* Learn to design classes using good OOP design principles discussed in class

# Instructions


## The game

Alice and Bob have realized the simplicity of their revealed-hand version of Go Fish and figured out that they probably should play with their hands concealed. However, they've already delt two hands of cards and decide to play one last game with revealed hands and make it as fast as possible. To aid this, they first sort both their hands of cards on the table in front of them. This will make it easier for them to find each card the other player asks for.

The game proceeds much as in the previous assignment, with Alice taking her turn and then Bob taking his turn. However, now when asking for cards, Alice proceeds FORWARD through her sorted set of cards while Bob proceeds BACKWARDS through his sorted set.

## Card ordering

Assume Alice and Bob order their cards as follows: first they look at the suit of the card and arrange them in the following order from least to greatest: clubs, diamonds, spades, hearts. They then order each suit: ace, 2, 3, . . . 10, jack, queen, king. Thus the correct ordering of

h 9, c k, s 3, c a, h j, d 3

would be

c a, c k, d 3, s 3, h 9, h j

## Your approach

At the start of the program, you will read in Alice and Bob's starting hands from two files. The names of these files are provided as command line arguments with Alice's file in `argv[1]` and Bob's in `argv[2]`. The starter code opens the files for you as `ifstream` objects, which you can treat much like `cin`. You should read Alice and Bob's cards into two binary search trees. Don't worry about balancing the binary search trees (though you can try and optimize this if you like). Your binary search tree class should obey the card ordering rules given above. While implementing this, you may find it helpful to overload the operators `==`, `<`, and `>` on your card class so that you can easily choose which branches to go down on your binary tree. Note that you need to correctly handle the case of cards with the value 10 (which has two characters) and separately compare the value and suit, so storing the cards as strings is probably not the best approach.

Once you have the sets of cards, the game begins. Alice iterates forward through her binary tree (in increasing order of the cards), checking whether Bob has that card. You should check if Bob has each card using a binary tree lookup. Once a matching card is found, you should print the line "Alice picked matching card <card suit as a character> <card value as a number/character>". The card should then be removed from both players hands by calling delete on the binary search tree. Make sure to delete any dynamically allocated memory when removing the cards from your trees!

The process then repeats, except this time, Bob looks through his cards BACKWARDS. This means that while the first card Alice finds should be the first shared card (in order), the first card Bob finds should be the last shared card (in order). Once there are no matching cards, you should print out the final hands of both players with the matching cards removed.

As before, you should write your own Makefile for this lab so that running `make` builds an executable called `game`.

## Before you begin

Based on pa02, we are adding an additional requirement that you write a set of unit tests for your binary search tree. These should be in a file called `tests.cpp`, which you will submit, and you should write your Makefil so that running `make test` compiles and runs these tests. Note that there will be no submit.cs tests for these unit tests, so you can have the output in whatever format you find most helpful. You should test each of the functions on your binary search tree, which will include, at the very least, `find()`, `remove()`, `insert()`, `successor()`, and `predecessor()`. We recommend writing these tests BEFORE you begin implementing the full game to ensure that your binary search tree works correctly. Debugging one set of code is much easier than debugging two at the same time. This will also ensure that your are correctly separating your binary tree class from the rest of your program logic.

## Example

Contents of `alice_cards.txt`:
```
h 3
s 10
c a
c 3
s 5
h 10
d a
```

Contents of `bob_cards.txt`:
```
c 2
d a
h 10
c 3
d j
s 10
h a
```

Correct output after running `make && ./game alice_cards.txt bob_cards.txt`:
```
Alice picked matching card c 3
Bob picked matching card h 10
Alice picked matching card d a
Bob picked matching card s 10

Alice's cards:
c a
s 5
h 3

Bob's cards:
c 2
d j
h a
```

Note: a=ace, k=king, q=queen, j=jack

## Requirements

For this lab, you will have a lot of flexibility on your implementation (which just means we won't be providing a code framework for you to fill in). However, there are a few requirements that your mentor will check for when they look at your code. Keep these in mind as you think about your solution:

* You must use a binary search tree you implemented yourself to solve the problem, not another data structure or a class in the standard library.
* Your binary search tree must implement a constructor, a destructor and other other methods as needed
* You code should be readable
* Your classes should define clear interfaces and hide implementation details as much as possible. 
* Your program must properly free all memory it allocates, including your binary tree nodes and any dynamically allocated data stored inside them. We will also check this with valgrind when you turn in your code to submit.cs.
* You do not need to worry about having multiple instances of the same card. Each card will appear only once per hand.

# Submission instructions 

## Files to submit

You must organize your program in three files: main.cpp, cards.cpp, tests.cpp, and cards.h
In addition you must create a Makefile that compiles your program to an executable called `game`

You must submit exactly five files with the names: Makefile, main.cpp, cards.cpp, tests.cpp, cards.h

## Checkpoint deadline: 03/12 at midnight (20 points)

Complete an initial design of your classes and push your code to github by the checkpoint deadline. For example if you decide to use two classes to create the card game you must provide the declarations of both classes in cards.h and describe the public interface of each class. You must also complete implementing the code that reads each player's cards from a file and stores it in a binary search tree as well as the code that prints each players hand. To get credit for the checkpoint your code must compile without error. This means that you must create stubs for any functions that you are yet to implement.

Include the commit message "CHECKPOINT SUBMISSION" when pushing your code to github. 

Submit PA3 at https://submit.cs.ucsb.edu/, or use the following command from a CS terminal:

# TODO

You should see a score of 60/60 

The remaining 40 points are broken down as
# TODO
